---
published: false
---
Just another of these year in review posts. So here I am again to do a retrospective for 2017!

<div class="toc" markdown="1">
* TOC
{:toc}
</div>

## Blogging

This blog will complete its [9 years anniversary](https://loiane.com/archive) this month. I started blogging right after I graduated from college as a way of documenting technologies that I was learning for my self, and I can't list all the good things that happened to me professionally and personally because of this blog since I started publishing posts. Sharing what you are learning (or what you've learned) is something I recommend for every student and professional. You can blog about developing a "Hello, World" in some technology you are learning. It is nice to see how much you have evolved professionally throughout the years and other people might also benefit from the content you share.

So in 2017 I decided to start blogging again sice I was focusing only on publishing videos on my Youtube channel. I merged my posts written in Portuguese and English (still migrating all English posts from my old Wordpress blog). I published 7 articles since July 2017, and hopefully I'll write more posts on 2018! 

## Books

I've been working with Packt Publishing as an [author for 6 years](https://www.packtpub.com/books/info/authors/loiane-groner) now. One of my favorite books I've written (Learning JavaScript Data Structures and Algorithms) was translated to Chinese and also to Portuguese. Although I'm Brazilian, I never published a book in Portuguese, and thanks to [Novatec publishing](https://novatec.com.br/livros/estruturas-de-dados-algoritmos-em-javascript/) that translated the book to [Portuguese](https://novatec.com.br/livros/estruturas-de-dados-algoritmos-em-javascript/), I was able to see a book of mine being featured in a brazilian bookstore in the most famous avenue in Sao Paulo! That was a dream come true for me!

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="pt" dir="ltr">Achievement unlocked! Quando o seu livro é de TI e a livraria coloca na vitrine como destaque!<br>My book featured in a brazilian bookstore! <a href="https://t.co/iN0h1kiSTM">pic.twitter.com/iN0h1kiSTM</a></p>&mdash; Loiane Groner (@loiane) <a href="https://twitter.com/loiane/status/859814422990258177?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">May 3, 2017</a></blockquote>
<script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

I also have started working on the [third edition of the book](https://www.packtpub.com/web-development/learning-javascript-data-structures-and-algorithms-third-edition). I'm writing new chapters and reviewing all the algorithms (updating all source code to ES2015+ and also adding unit tests with Mocha), and as an extra, also including a TypeScript version of the source code in the code bundle. I'll complete the first drafts for the new edition on January 2018, but the book is already available for pre-order at [Packt website](https://www.packtpub.com/web-development/learning-javascript-data-structures-and-algorithms-third-edition) and also [amazon.com](http://a.co/3RUMQjT).

## Conferences and community

I've been given the opportunity to speak at some great conferences in Brazil! I started attending local meetups and conferences when I was in college (even volunteered to work as staff at some conferences so I could get the ticket for free - college student life!). It was a great way of meeting professionals that were already working as developers (great opportunity for networking) and also see what was being used by companies though the talks presented at the conferences. But I never imagined that one day I would also be attending conferences as a speaker, so I feel very fortunate to have these opportunities. 

In [this link](https://loiane.com/speaking) you can checkout the conferences and meetups I attended during 2017.

I also presented a talk for 1400 people in 2017 in the biggest JavaScript conference of the world: BrazilJS! I had the honour of presenting a talk at the first BrazilJS in 2011, and it felt great to be back to the conference and see how much it grew since its first edition!

Also in 2017 I had the amazing opportunity of attending my first big international conference in the US. Went to Seatlle on May to attend Microsoft Build as part of the MS TAG group. Met amazing professionals and also had the oportunity to met some people from the Angular team and community. This opportunity was priceless, so thank you very much Microsoft for making that happen!

## Youtube and training portal

I've been [recording Youtube tutorials](https://youtube.com/loianegroner) since 2014. My channel is mainly in Portuguese since there are a lot of content in English, but very few in Portuguese.

During 2017, I focused on recording an Angular video course in Portuguese. For 2018, I want to complete the course (Forms and Http module) and record a new one. I might change the approach on the videos. So far I've recorded [100 videos for the Angular course](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tPOMG0D57S0&list=PLGxZ4Rq3BOBoSRcKWEdQACbUCNWLczg2G). For 2018, I want to record smaller series of videos focusing on a particular topic (and also publish the courses Netflix style). This way I can cover more topics and deliver more content.

To index all the videos and also offer a completion certificate, I started a [training portal on 2016](https://loiane.training/). Right now we have more than 30k students registered. The current platform is based on Wordpress, and it has a lot of issues (it is a modified theme for LMS). I started in 2017 developing the platform from strach using Angular + Firebase. Hopefully I'll get some spare time during this first semester to finish the platform code and implement the migration in production. This is also going to be a study case for the 2018 video courses I'm planning for the Youtube channel, to demonstrante we can develop medium-large projects with the content shared on Youtube for free.

## Burnout syndrome

Unfortunatelly, on July I got sick due stress/burnout for a few months (until mid November). I had to cancel some speaking engagements and pause recording videos for my Youtube channel so I could focus on recovering. Even going to the gym to swim (which I something I really enjoy doing it) was painful. Did some trips to the hospital, took some medicine, but at some point the medicine was no longer working. Until I was recommended to drink tea. I found that chamomile tea works best for me, and recently I started drinking a mix of chamomile, bee balm and passion fruit tea. I even started enjoying the taste of tea. Thankfully, I'm no longer taking any medicine, just a cup of tea before I go to bed and sometimes a cup after lunch. 

## Becoming a GDE and MVP!

This is definetely my highlight for 2017, specially because I got the news from the MVP program on November 1st and on November 6th I got the news from the GDE program! I feel very honoured to be part of programs that have such amazing people! People that inspire me and that I look up to professionaly (and personally as well).

Aaron Frost wrote an amazing post about what a GDE does. Same content can be applied to the MVP program as well. 

## 2018

Looking forward to being able to contribute to the community sharing content, recording videos and speaking at meetups and conferences in 2018! 

Wish you all a healthy and a properous 2018!
